>> Lukas Ruebbelke: What I wanna do,
just to make sure that
I'm not leaving anybody behind,
anybody is not overwhelmed.
I'm going to go through this solution,
and I'm really gonna take my time, and
I'm going to talk through it.
And if at any point I get to
something that's sticky or
that is confusing, just raise your hand,
ask me to clarify and
I will take as long as I need
to get through this challenge.
Cuz honestly, component classes and
templates are just
the foundation of everything
that we're going to do.
And so
I definitely do not want to rush it,
I would actually rather cover less
material, and have everybody get it.
And if I have to say something four or
five times,
totally more than happy to do that.
So, let's go through and
do this challenge.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And from here,
I’m just going to cut this out.
So this is just as if,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: I pasted this in for
the very first time.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: I'll
also get rid of this and
so all we have now is a widgets array.
So it is an array of widgets
objects that we pasted in.
And is well, just this template and so
this is very, very basic HTML
there's nothing special about.
I just did not want everybody to spend
in 20 minutes doing the layout and
getting in the weeds.
So now, if we look at the challenge,
create a widgets collection
in the widgets component.
So we've done this, so now,
the next thing that we need to do is
we need to create a way to keep track
of the current widget, so this is
the nature of a master detail view.
You have a master collection of something,
you select one of the items in
the collection that you can then act upon,
and so we need to keep track
of the selected widget.
So the first thing I'm
going to do is I'm going to
create a property, and
I'm going to define it.
But I'm not going to put a value into it,
I'm going to declare it, but
it's not going to be undefined.
But it is here,
the next thing that I'm going to do, and
this is slightly getting
the cart before the horse, but
I know that I need a way
to set the selected widget.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And so, I'm just
gonna create a selected method that takes
a widget, and so this is kind of
a basic center style function.
That,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: It sets
this.selectedwidget to
whatever widget we send in.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
now I've created a property,
selectedwidget,
and I have a selected method
that accepts a widget,
and assigns that to selected widget.
So far, so good,
everybody understand what I've done?
One property, or rather two properties,
when you count the collection I pasted in,
and one method, okay.
So now that we have our component
class with a property and
a method, let's go to our template.
So this is widgetscomponent.html,
and we need to essentially
create a list item for
every widget in our array.
So using ngFor we can say
let widget of widgets,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And because we created
widget, this local variable for
this iteration,
we'll go here and we'll bind to this.
So widget.name, and let's go here.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: We'll go widget, and
you can see here that it knows kinda what
we're dealing with, so widget.description,
and let's see how this renders.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So you can see here,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: We're just using NG4.
We're looping over the widgets
collection and for
each item in the collection,
or each widget, rather,
in the collection, we're binding
to a property on that object.
Does that make sense?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Okay.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
now the question is,
when I have this list of widgets,
how do I select one?
So obviously, kind of the basic event for
that would be a click,
so on the list item.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And I will break this
down, so it's kind of on each individual,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Thing.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: We'll go click,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And
we'll go selected,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Then we'll go widget.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So now what is
happening is when this list-item is
clicked, it's calling selected and
parsing in the widget that
it scoped to that iteration.
And so Angular is pretty good at keeping
track of when I'm looping over this,
that each item has a specific and
unique variable or essentially,
yeah, local variable that's
assigned to that element.
So it's not getting them mixed up.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And
let's go down here.
So under nbcard I'm just going
to create a horizontal rule.
And we'll go pre and
we will go selected widget.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And we'll just go
adjacent, so I want to dump this out.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: In fact I don't
know why I did this under the card.
It seems like I left
myself a little love note,
they're like hey, here it is, okay.
So now let's check this.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: By the way,
sure, I haven't done index key value
pairs a ton but
we'll certainly give that a shot.
So after this is over
let's see what happens.
All right, so now, as I select this,
you'll notice I select the green widget,
it's now showing up.
Let's do a couple things real quick.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: If I go to,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: itemscomponent.css,
they have a bit of functionality
that I quite like, and
that is if I go to Items,
you notice here when I do this mouse over,
you get this kind of this cool,
hey, this has focus.
And so I'm going to borrow that
from the itemscomponent.css.
Hop back over to here, paste this in,
let's see if we've made this any better.
Yeah, I think so.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And now we can see as
we select this that we're just rendering
it out, which for now is completely fine.
Because what we're going to
do next is we are going to,
or by the end of the day hopefully, we are
going to actually push this into a form.
But for now we just want to
see that we are selecting,
probably selecting a widget, and
all this is doing is it's a click event,
that's calling a method,
select in this case, and passing in
the widget that we have selected.
Any questions about this so far?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: How do you
feel about this my friend?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Cheeky.
It sounds so easy when I say it, but
then, it's like, go forth and do it.
So just to review, again.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Just simple method,
click we're passing in the widget which is
then setting the selected widget
which we're then binding to.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Now,
in the challenge we also had used
ngf to show an alternate message,
if no widget is selected.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And so here, or
rather here, we're saying select a widget.
Well, what I'd like to do is actually,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Show
an alternate message.
So we'll go selectedWidget.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And
let's go selectedWidget.name.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And so now we're
simply saying if there's a selected
widget, then go ahead and show the name.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Eventually I'm
going to land on the browser, so
now you can see.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Well, this is
fantastic, but currently we have no way
other than to kind of I guess refreshing
it to verify that this is working.
What we can do is we can go down here and
on the cancel, so
what event should I use here?
>> Speaker 2: SelectedWidgit and
pass nothing?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Yes.
>> Speaker 2: Click
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Click, good,
okay, perfect.
So click we're also
going to call select in.
But in this case, we actually wanna
send a null widget, so that is null.
So now let's check this out.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Here, and so I click
Cancel, should call selectedWidget,
but it will set it to null, boom.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So still,
I think on the JavaScript side in terms of
complexity, we're still at
about kind of a two or a three.
We're just starting to put together
these kinda really simple things
together in a way that actually does
some pretty interesting things.
And, just kind of a side note here,
it's really easy,
it's kind of a new programmer,
to really make things mystical.
And we're doing these really hard things
but I find that I do a lot of simple,
fundamental, foundational things over and
over.
It's when you truly understand
how to do these fundamental
foundational things that
you could start to compose
them together to create things that
does meaningful work for people.
So non trigger applications, so
it's really just a composition of a bunch
of foundational techniques done very well.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And so
let's go real quick, let's go in here.
And just because I don't remember
the syntax off the top of my
head,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: I'm just going to
paste this in, and then we will
explain kind of how this works.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So with Angular 4,
they introduced this
concept of ng if else.
And so how this works is, if one
condition is true they show one thing,
if not then you show another thing.
And so this also gives us the opportunity
to see another local template variable and
action.
And so in this case, we're saying
here's this template fragment and
we're going to call it prompt.
And so now, what we're saying is ngif so
we'll dial this back in, selectedWidget.
If it's true, show this,
if not,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Then show this,
so it's just ngif else, so
it shows one thing or another.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And
we'll actually do select.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So ngif else,
show this template fragment.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So you can see,
it's selected, cancel it and
you're getting the alternate prompt.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Now let me try
something off the top of my head.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And
we'll just see what happens here.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So, somebody asked to
see a key value pair.
And so I am going to oblige and
see what actually happens here.
I know I haven't done this in a while but
if all else fails,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Then
we just pull it up in the docs and
see what comes of this.
So,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: What I have here,
basic key value pair.
So if I wanted to get this object I
just pass in the key, like for instance
this goes back to property binding when
I was talking about array notation.
You can go first widget = thi.testWidgets,
and pass this in.
And this could actually be,
generally it'll be actually a string if
you're dealing with a JSON structure.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Like so.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And so this is also
when I was talking about below notation.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: It looks like this,
or more so if we had it like a key.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Then key can change,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: It's
how it's going to return this.
So this is where one array notation comes
in, but a kind of key value pair of stuff.
Is that you're able to look up
an object on a collection immediately.
All right, so with that said,
let's see if I can iterate over this.
Wish me luck, we'll see what happens.
So let's go p,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And ngFor.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Hold on.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: I have a feeling that
this is not liking this.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: This is
not particularly helpful.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
I'm not going to let you
get in the weeds too much on this.
I may just have to come back tomorrow and
show, I'll look into it.
So let's just press pause on that,
and I'll look into that.
The next question is, does it have to be
NG template if we're using else with ngif?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Yes,
I’m pretty sure that is the case, yeah,